A class in Java is thought of as a template, instructions, or a blueprint for creating objects in your program. In a class, it defines a set of variables and methods that the object created from the class. It also defines what behaviors and properties an object will have but doesn't hold any data itself. Behaviors in a class are functions the object can perform. Properties in a class are data that an object will have. Don't get confused though when you define a class, as a class is a definition of what an object should be. An Object is an instance of a class. By creating an object from a class, you are bringing your blueprint to life, using it to store specific data, and allocating memory for it. For each object you create from the same class, the objects can have different attribute values, but share the behavior and structure defined by the class. When creating an object it represents a real thing that has values for the attributes that are defined in your class. Once you create an object, it will represent actual data based on the blueprint provided by the class you create. Think of an object as you are following along the instructions and filling in answers.&nbsp; Some differences between objects and classes are attributes, methods, and purpose. Attributes for a class have an actual value but define what an attribute an object will have. Attributes for an object hold the actual values for those attributes in the class. Methods in a class define what actions an object can perform. Methods for objects use the actions to perform. Lastly, purpose in a class defines the structure for objects to hold on to. The purpose of an object is to represent a specific entity with its actual values for the attributes in your class.&nbsp;
